# Analysis of Spotify API Data with Hierarchical Clustering
This repository is an attempt to perform machine learning methods on data from the spotify API. There are two fundemental pieces to this repository:   
- A set of functions designed to analyze, clean, and store data pulled from the Spotify API utilizing the spotipy python module.
- A Hierarchical Clustering module I built to gain more experience with machine learning algorithms and to analyze the data I had retrieved from spotify. Theoretically, this algorithm should work for any dataset provided to it in the proper format.

Really, all of this was to practice retrieval/organization of data, and gain an understanding of machine learning fundementals, which in that regard, I've succeeded, however, hierarchical clustering for this dataset didn't work particurally well as a method of analysis. I will likely attempt others in the future, but for now this project is on hold. Regardless, here's an overview of how it all works.

## Spotianalyze
The file `spotianalyze.py` contains functions that access, clean and store data pulled from the spotify API.
The function `create_library(spotify_object)` creates two csv files from the users "Liked Songs": One to hold the songs in the playlist, and one to hold the artists that appear in that playlist. An important note about the spotify API is that artists have associated genres, but songsinstead have "features" describing certain aspects of the song. That topic will be explained more in depth later. The `spotify_object` parameter describes an object created with the spotipy library, which is an interface to make API calls to spotify easier. There is also the `create_from_playlist(spotify_object)` function, designed to do the same (for songs only) for any other playlist that might be saved to your library. 